README.md, before:

# rofi-calc

**🖩 Do live calculations in rofi!**

[![GitHub Actions Workflow](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/actions)
[![license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/svenstaro/rofi-calc.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/stargazers)

A [rofi](https://github.com/DaveDavenport/rofi) plugin that uses qalculate's `qalc` to parse natural language input and provide results.

Since this uses qalculate's amazing `qalc` you can try natural language queries such `500 + 25%` or `5000 EUR to USD` or `150 to hex`. It can also solve linear equations on the fly. Try `60x + 30 = 50`, for instance.

![](demo.gif)

Run rofi like:

    rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort

The result of the current input can be selected with `Ctrl+Return`, and history entries can be selected with `Return`. By default this will just output the equation/result.

The history file by default sits at `$HOME/.local/share/rofi/rofi_calc_history` in case you ever need to delete it or change it manually.
You can disable persistent history if you don't like that.

## Installation

<a href="https://repology.org/project/rofi-calc/versions"><img align="right" src="https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/rofi-calc.svg" alt="Packaging status"></a>

### Via package manager

* [Arch Linux](https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/rofi-calc/)
* [FreeBSD](https://www.freshports.org/x11/rofi-calc/)
* [Gentoo](https://packages.gentoo.org/packages/x11-misc/rofi-calc)
* [openSUSE](https://software.opensuse.org/package/rofi-calc)

### From source

You need a C compilation toolchain (a `cc`, `autoconf`, `pkg-config`, ...), `rofi` (version >= 1.5) as well as `qalculate` (version > 2.0).

You will also need development headers for `rofi`. Depending on your distribution these may be included in different packages:

* Arch Linux, Gentoo: included with `rofi`, `libqalculate`
* OpenSUSE: `zypper in rofi rofi-devel qalculate`
* Debian: `apt install rofi-dev qalc libtool libtool-bin`
* Ubuntu: `apt install rofi-dev qalc libtool`
* Solus: `eopkg it rofi-devel libqalculate`
* CentOS, Fedora: Install `qalculate automake libtool` (find `rofi-devel` headers yourself)
* Others: look it up :)

Some distributions ship an [extremely outdated](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/issues/7) version of `qalculate` so you might have to compile your own. If that is the case, see [here](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/wiki/Installing-libqalculate-from-source).

**rofi-calc** uses autotools as build system. If installing from git, the following steps should install it:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc.git
$ cd rofi-calc/
$ mkdir m4
$ autoreconf -i
$ mkdir build
$ cd build/
$ ../configure
$ make
$ make install
```

## Advanced Usage

- Use the `-qalc-binary` option to specify the name or location of qalculate's `qalc` binary. Defaults to `qalc`.
- Use the `-terse` option to reduce the output of `qalc` to just the result of the input expression.
- Use the `-no-unicode` option to disable `qalc`'s Unicode mode.
- Use the `-calc-command` option to specify a shell command to execute which will be interpolated with the following keys:

    * `{expression}`: the left-side of the equation (currently not available when using `-terse`)
    * `{result}`: the right of the equation

    The following example copies the result to the clipboard upon pressing the key combination defined by `-kb-accept-custom`
    (by default Control+Return).
    NOTE: `{result}` should be quoted since it may contain characters that your shell would otherwise interpret:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -calc-command "echo -n '{result}' | xclip"

    Alternatively, this example would immediately type out the result (using `xdotool`) wherever your cursor currently is
    (upon pressing Control+Return/`-kb-accept-custom`):

        rofi -modi calc -show calc -calc-command 'xdotool type --clearmodifiers "{result}"'

- The `-calc-command-history` option will additionally add the output of `qalc` to history when the `-calc-command` is run.
    This will have no effect if `-no-history` is enabled.
- It's convenient to bind it to a key combination in i3. For instance, you could use:

        bindsym $mod+c exec --no-startup-id "rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort > /dev/null"

- To disable the bold font applied to the results by default, you can use the flag `-no-bold` and run rofi like:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -no-bold

- To disable persistent history, use `-no-persist-history`:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -no-persist-history

    This will disable writing and loading the history file and thus you'll lose and entered entries
    upon quitting rofi-calc.

- To disable the history entirely, use `-no-history`:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -no-history -lines 0

    The benefit of this is that you can simply enter a term and press `Return` and that'll already
    act on the result by printing it to stdout or via `-calc-command` if configured.

- To automatically save last calculation to the history on rofi close, use `-automatic-save-to-history`.:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -automatic-save-to-history

    This means that calculations are put into history even if you don't press `Return`.

- To enable thousand separators in the output (e.g. `5 * 12 = 6,000`, rather than `6000`) add the following to `~/.config/qalculate/qalc.cfg`

    - For `,` separator:

            digit_grouping=2

    - For space separator:

            digit_grouping=1

- To use a different output format for numeric representations (for instance, some locales use `,` instead of `.` as a decimal separator),
  set `LC_NUMERIC` to a different value like this:

        LC_NUMERIC=de_DE.UTF-8 rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort

- To set a different default locale, set your `LC_MONETARY` variable:

        LC_MONETARY=de_DE.UTF-8 rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort

  Make sure the locale is actually available on your system!

- Use the `-hint-result` option to specify the text of the hint before result.
- Use the `-hint-welcome` option to specify the welcome text.

## Development

If you're developing this, it might be helpful to start rofi directly with a locally compiled plugin like this:

    autoreconf -i
    mkdir build
    cd build
    ../configure
    make
    rofi -plugin-path .libs -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort

Commit message:

added readme about theme compatibility

README.md, after:

# rofi-calc

**🖩 Do live calculations in rofi!**

[![GitHub Actions Workflow](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/workflows/Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/actions)
[![license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/svenstaro/rofi-calc.svg)](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/stargazers)

A [rofi](https://github.com/DaveDavenport/rofi) plugin that uses qalculate's `qalc` to parse natural language input and provide results.

Since this uses qalculate's amazing `qalc` you can try natural language queries such `500 + 25%` or `5000 EUR to USD` or `150 to hex`. It can also solve linear equations on the fly. Try `60x + 30 = 50`, for instance.

![](demo.gif)

Run rofi like:

    rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort

The result of the current input can be selected with `Ctrl+Return`, and history entries can be selected with `Return`. By default this will just output the equation/result.

The history file by default sits at `$HOME/.local/share/rofi/rofi_calc_history` in case you ever need to delete it or change it manually.
You can disable persistent history if you don't like that.

## Installation

<a href="https://repology.org/project/rofi-calc/versions"><img align="right" src="https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/rofi-calc.svg" alt="Packaging status"></a>

### Via package manager

* [Arch Linux](https://archlinux.org/packages/extra/x86_64/rofi-calc/)
* [FreeBSD](https://www.freshports.org/x11/rofi-calc/)
* [Gentoo](https://packages.gentoo.org/packages/x11-misc/rofi-calc)
* [openSUSE](https://software.opensuse.org/package/rofi-calc)

### From source

You need a C compilation toolchain (a `cc`, `autoconf`, `pkg-config`, ...), `rofi` (version >= 1.5) as well as `qalculate` (version > 2.0).

You will also need development headers for `rofi`. Depending on your distribution these may be included in different packages:

* Arch Linux, Gentoo: included with `rofi`, `libqalculate`
* OpenSUSE: `zypper in rofi rofi-devel qalculate`
* Debian: `apt install rofi-dev qalc libtool libtool-bin`
* Ubuntu: `apt install rofi-dev qalc libtool`
* Solus: `eopkg it rofi-devel libqalculate`
* CentOS, Fedora: Install `qalculate automake libtool` (find `rofi-devel` headers yourself)
* Others: look it up :)

Some distributions ship an [extremely outdated](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/issues/7) version of `qalculate` so you might have to compile your own. If that is the case, see [here](https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc/wiki/Installing-libqalculate-from-source).

**rofi-calc** uses autotools as build system. If installing from git, the following steps should install it:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/svenstaro/rofi-calc.git
$ cd rofi-calc/
$ mkdir m4
$ autoreconf -i
$ mkdir build
$ cd build/
$ ../configure
$ make
$ make install
```

## Advanced Usage

- Use the `-qalc-binary` option to specify the name or location of qalculate's `qalc` binary. Defaults to `qalc`.
- Use the `-terse` option to reduce the output of `qalc` to just the result of the input expression.
- Use the `-no-unicode` option to disable `qalc`'s Unicode mode.
- Use the `-calc-command` option to specify a shell command to execute which will be interpolated with the following keys:

    * `{expression}`: the left-side of the equation (currently not available when using `-terse`)
    * `{result}`: the right of the equation

    The following example copies the result to the clipboard upon pressing the key combination defined by `-kb-accept-custom`
    (by default Control+Return).
    NOTE: `{result}` should be quoted since it may contain characters that your shell would otherwise interpret:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -calc-command "echo -n '{result}' | xclip"

    Alternatively, this example would immediately type out the result (using `xdotool`) wherever your cursor currently is
    (upon pressing Control+Return/`-kb-accept-custom`):

        rofi -modi calc -show calc -calc-command 'xdotool type --clearmodifiers "{result}"'

- The `-calc-command-history` option will additionally add the output of `qalc` to history when the `-calc-command` is run.
    This will have no effect if `-no-history` is enabled.
- It's convenient to bind it to a key combination in i3. For instance, you could use:

        bindsym $mod+c exec --no-startup-id "rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort > /dev/null"

- To disable the bold font applied to the results by default, you can use the flag `-no-bold` and run rofi like:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -no-bold

- To disable persistent history, use `-no-persist-history`:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -no-persist-history

    This will disable writing and loading the history file and thus you'll lose and entered entries
    upon quitting rofi-calc.

- To disable the history entirely, use `-no-history`:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -no-history -lines 0

    The benefit of this is that you can simply enter a term and press `Return` and that'll already
    act on the result by printing it to stdout or via `-calc-command` if configured.

- To automatically save last calculation to the history on rofi close, use `-automatic-save-to-history`.:

        rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort -automatic-save-to-history

    This means that calculations are put into history even if you don't press `Return`.

- To enable thousand separators in the output (e.g. `5 * 12 = 6,000`, rather than `6000`) add the following to `~/.config/qalculate/qalc.cfg`

    - For `,` separator:

            digit_grouping=2

    - For space separator:

            digit_grouping=1

- To use a different output format for numeric representations (for instance, some locales use `,` instead of `.` as a decimal separator),
  set `LC_NUMERIC` to a different value like this:

        LC_NUMERIC=de_DE.UTF-8 rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort

- To set a different default locale, set your `LC_MONETARY` variable:

        LC_MONETARY=de_DE.UTF-8 rofi -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort

  Make sure the locale is actually available on your system!

- Use the `-hint-result` option to specify the text of the hint before result.
- Use the `-hint-welcome` option to specify the welcome text.

## Custom Rofi Theme compatibility

If you are using a custom theme with rofi (e.g. `rofi -show drun -theme ~/.config/rofi/mytheme.rasi`) and don't see the result of the calculation, that's because the rofi-calc mode relies on the `message` widget that might be hidden by some themes.

In your `mytheme.rasi` file or any file, it might `@import`, look for the following
```
mainbox {
    children: [...]
}
```
make sure the list contains `message`<br>
for example 
```
mainbox {
    children: [inputbar, message, listview]
}
```
Reference Rofi docs: [Layout](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi/blob/next/doc/rofi-theme.5.markdown#layout), [Base Widgets](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi/blob/next/doc/rofi-theme.5.markdown#base-widgets), [Children](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi/blob/next/doc/rofi-theme.5.markdown#children)


## Development

If you're developing this, it might be helpful to start rofi directly with a locally compiled plugin like this:

    autoreconf -i
    mkdir build
    cd build
    ../configure
    make
    rofi -plugin-path .libs -show calc -modi calc -no-show-match -no-sort
